README.md, before:

DoctrineExtensions
==================

[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/branch-master-blue.svg)](https://github.com/Dukecity/DoctrineExtensions/tree/master)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/Dukecity/DoctrineExtensions/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Dukecity/DoctrineExtensions/actions)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/Dukecity/DoctrineExtensions/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=LGK8XH8Z8Z)](https://codecov.io/gh/Dukecity/DoctrineExtensions)
[![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/Dukecity/doctrineextensions.svg?label=stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/Dukecity/doctrineextensions)

A set of extensions to Doctrine 2 that add support for functions available in
MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL and SQLite.

| DB | Functions |
|:--:|:---------:|
| MySQL | `ACOS, ADDTIME, AES_DECRYPT, AES_ENCRYPT, ANY_VALUE, ASCII, ASIN, ATAN, ATAN2, BINARY, BIT_COUNT, BIT_XOR, CAST, CEIL, CHAR_LENGTH, COLLATE, CONCAT_WS, CONV, CONVERT_TZ, COS, COT, COUNTIF, CRC32, DATE, DATE_FORMAT, DATEADD, DATEDIFF, DATESUB, DAY, DAYNAME, DAYOFWEEK, DAYOFYEAR, DEGREES, DIV, EXP, EXTRACT, FIELD, FIND_IN_SET, FLOOR, FORMAT, FROM_BASE64, FROM_UNIXTIME, GREATEST, GROUP_CONCAT, HEX, HOUR, IFELSE, IFNULL, INET_ATON, INET_NTOA, INET6_ATON, INET6_NTOA, INSTR, IS_IPV4, IS_IPV4_COMPAT, IS_IPV4_MAPPED, IS_IPV6, JSON_CONTAINS, JSON_DEPTH, JSON_EXTRACT, JSON_LENGTH, JSON_UNQUOTE, LAG, LAST_DAY, LAST_INSERT_ID, LEAD, LEAST, LOG, LOG10, LOG2, LPAD, MAKEDATE, MATCH, MD5, MINUTE, MOD, MONTH, MONTHNAME, NOW, NULLIF, OVER, PERIOD_DIFF, PI, POINT, POWER, QUARTER, RADIANS, RAND, REGEXP, REGEXP_REPLACE, REGEXP_SUBSTR, REPLACE, ROUND, RPAD, SECOND, SECTOTIME, SHA1, SHA2, SIN, SOUNDEX, STD, STDDEV, STRTODATE, ST_DISTANCE_SPHERE, STR_TO_DATE, SUBSTRING_INDEX, TAN, TIME, TIMEDIFF, TIMESTAMPADD, TIMESTAMPDIFF, TIMETOSEC, TRUNCATE, UNHEX, UNIX_TIMESTAMP, UTC_TIMESTAMP, UUID_SHORT, VARIANCE, WEEK, WEEKDAY, WEEKOFYEAR, YEAR, YEARMONTH, YEARWEEK` |
| Oracle | `CEIL, DAY, FLOOR, HOUR, LISTAGG, MINUTE, MONTH, NVL, SECOND, TO_CHAR, TO_DATE, TRUNC, YEAR` |
| SQLite | `CASE WHEN THEN ELSE END, DATE, DATE_FORMAT*, DAY, HOUR, IFNULL, JULIANDAY, MINUTE, MONTH, REPLACE, ROUND, SECOND, STRFTIME, WEEK, WEEKDAY, YEAR` |
| PostgreSQL | `AGE, AT_TIME_ZONE, COUNT_FILTER, DATE, DATE_PART, DATE_TRUNC, DAY, EXTRACT, GREATEST, HOUR, ILIKE, LEAST, MINUTE, MONTH, QUARTER, REGEXP_REPLACE, SECOND, STRING_AGG, TO_CHAR, TO_DATE, YEAR` |

> Note: SQLite date functions are implemented as `strftime(format, value)`.
  SQLite only supports the [most common formats](https://www.sqlite.org/lang_datefunc.html),
  so `date_format` will convert the mysql substitutions to the closest available SQLite substitutions.
  This means `date_format(field, '%b %D %Y') -> Jan 1st 2023` becomes `strftime('%m %d %Y', field) -> 01 01 2023`.

Installation
------------

To install this library, run the command below and you will get the latest
version:

```sh
composer require dukecity/doctrineextensions
```

Usage
-----

If you are using DoctrineExtensions with Symfony read [How to Register custom DQL Functions](https://symfony.com/doc/current/doctrine/custom_dql_functions.html).

You can find example Symfony configuration for using DoctrineExtensions custom DQL functions in [config](config).

If you are using DoctrineExtensions standalone, you might want to fire up the autoloader:

```php
<?php

$classLoader = new \Doctrine\Common\ClassLoader('DoctrineExtensions', '/path/to/extensions');
$classLoader->register();
```
For more information check out the documentation of [Doctrine DQL User Defined Functions](https://www.doctrine-project.org/projects/doctrine-orm/en/latest/cookbook/dql-user-defined-functions.html).


Test and Contributing
------------

If you want to run phpunit:

```sh
composer run test
```

If you want to run php-cs-fixer:

```sh
composer run lint
```

Notes
-----

- MySQL `DATE_ADD` is available in DQL as `DATEADD(CURRENT_DATE(), 1, 'DAY')`
- MySQL `DATE_SUB` is available in DQL as `DATESUB(CURRENT_DATE(), 1, 'DAY')`
- MySQL `IF` is available in DQL as `IFELSE(field > 0, 'true', 'false')`

Troubleshooting
---------------

Issues are disabled on this repository, if a custom DQL function that you want isn't provided, or does not support the arguments you want to pass, pull requests are open and we would love to have your contributions.

Commit message:

docs: add credits and motivation in readme

README.md, after:

DoctrineExtensions
==================

[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/badge/branch-master-blue.svg)](https://github.com/Dukecity/DoctrineExtensions/tree/master)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/Dukecity/DoctrineExtensions/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Dukecity/DoctrineExtensions/actions)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/Dukecity/DoctrineExtensions/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=LGK8XH8Z8Z)](https://codecov.io/gh/Dukecity/DoctrineExtensions)
[![Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/Dukecity/doctrineextensions.svg?label=stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/Dukecity/doctrineextensions)

A set of extensions to Doctrine 2 that add support for functions available in
MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL and SQLite.

| DB | Functions |
|:--:|:---------:|
| MySQL | `ACOS, ADDTIME, AES_DECRYPT, AES_ENCRYPT, ANY_VALUE, ASCII, ASIN, ATAN, ATAN2, BINARY, BIT_COUNT, BIT_XOR, CAST, CEIL, CHAR_LENGTH, COLLATE, CONCAT_WS, CONV, CONVERT_TZ, COS, COT, COUNTIF, CRC32, DATE, DATE_FORMAT, DATEADD, DATEDIFF, DATESUB, DAY, DAYNAME, DAYOFWEEK, DAYOFYEAR, DEGREES, DIV, EXP, EXTRACT, FIELD, FIND_IN_SET, FLOOR, FORMAT, FROM_BASE64, FROM_UNIXTIME, GREATEST, GROUP_CONCAT, HEX, HOUR, IFELSE, IFNULL, INET_ATON, INET_NTOA, INET6_ATON, INET6_NTOA, INSTR, IS_IPV4, IS_IPV4_COMPAT, IS_IPV4_MAPPED, IS_IPV6, JSON_CONTAINS, JSON_DEPTH, JSON_EXTRACT, JSON_LENGTH, JSON_UNQUOTE, LAG, LAST_DAY, LAST_INSERT_ID, LEAD, LEAST, LOG, LOG10, LOG2, LPAD, MAKEDATE, MATCH, MD5, MINUTE, MOD, MONTH, MONTHNAME, NOW, NULLIF, OVER, PERIOD_DIFF, PI, POINT, POWER, QUARTER, RADIANS, RAND, REGEXP, REGEXP_REPLACE, REGEXP_SUBSTR, REPLACE, ROUND, RPAD, SECOND, SECTOTIME, SHA1, SHA2, SIN, SOUNDEX, STD, STDDEV, STRTODATE, ST_DISTANCE_SPHERE, STR_TO_DATE, SUBSTRING_INDEX, TAN, TIME, TIMEDIFF, TIMESTAMPADD, TIMESTAMPDIFF, TIMETOSEC, TRUNCATE, UNHEX, UNIX_TIMESTAMP, UTC_TIMESTAMP, UUID_SHORT, VARIANCE, WEEK, WEEKDAY, WEEKOFYEAR, YEAR, YEARMONTH, YEARWEEK` |
| Oracle | `CEIL, DAY, FLOOR, HOUR, LISTAGG, MINUTE, MONTH, NVL, SECOND, TO_CHAR, TO_DATE, TRUNC, YEAR` |
| SQLite | `CASE WHEN THEN ELSE END, DATE, DATE_FORMAT*, DAY, HOUR, IFNULL, JULIANDAY, MINUTE, MONTH, REPLACE, ROUND, SECOND, STRFTIME, WEEK, WEEKDAY, YEAR` |
| PostgreSQL | `AGE, AT_TIME_ZONE, COUNT_FILTER, DATE, DATE_PART, DATE_TRUNC, DAY, EXTRACT, GREATEST, HOUR, ILIKE, LEAST, MINUTE, MONTH, QUARTER, REGEXP_REPLACE, SECOND, STRING_AGG, TO_CHAR, TO_DATE, YEAR` |

> Note: SQLite date functions are implemented as `strftime(format, value)`.
  SQLite only supports the [most common formats](https://www.sqlite.org/lang_datefunc.html),
  so `date_format` will convert the mysql substitutions to the closest available SQLite substitutions.
  This means `date_format(field, '%b %D %Y') -> Jan 1st 2023` becomes `strftime('%m %d %Y', field) -> 01 01 2023`.

Installation
------------

To install this library, run the command below and you will get the latest
version:

```sh
composer require dukecity/doctrineextensions
```

Usage
-----

If you are using DoctrineExtensions with Symfony read [How to Register custom DQL Functions](https://symfony.com/doc/current/doctrine/custom_dql_functions.html).

You can find example Symfony configuration for using DoctrineExtensions custom DQL functions in [config](config).

If you are using DoctrineExtensions standalone, you might want to fire up the autoloader:

```php
<?php

$classLoader = new \Doctrine\Common\ClassLoader('DoctrineExtensions', '/path/to/extensions');
$classLoader->register();
```
For more information check out the documentation of [Doctrine DQL User Defined Functions](https://www.doctrine-project.org/projects/doctrine-orm/en/latest/cookbook/dql-user-defined-functions.html).

Motivation
==================

The [original repo](https://github.com/beberlei/DoctrineExtensions) is [not so good maintained anymore](https://github.com/beberlei/DoctrineExtensions/pull/380#issuecomment-1445191806). 
The motivation for this Repo, is to 
- add more functions
- improve CodeCoverage and testing (your help is welcome)
- modernize

Credits
==================

Credits and thanks to the original repo and their maintainers.
https://github.com/beberlei/DoctrineExtensions

Test and Contributing
------------

If you want to run phpunit:

```sh
composer run test
```

If you want to run php-cs-fixer:

```sh
composer run lint
```

Notes
-----

- MySQL `DATE_ADD` is available in DQL as `DATEADD(CURRENT_DATE(), 1, 'DAY')`
- MySQL `DATE_SUB` is available in DQL as `DATESUB(CURRENT_DATE(), 1, 'DAY')`
- MySQL `IF` is available in DQL as `IFELSE(field > 0, 'true', 'false')`

Troubleshooting
---------------

Issues are disabled on this repository, if a custom DQL function that you want isn't provided, or does not support the arguments you want to pass, pull requests are open and we would love to have your contributions.
